
# Spoofax License Explained

## Intention

The license was selected in 1999 for the Stratego/XT project, taking into account the following considerations:

* The software should be available to a wide audience;

* It should be possible to use the software as a component in closed source / commercial projects;

* Extensions and improvements of the software should benefit the community.

The LGPLv2 license appeared to serve this purpose

* It is an open source software license that allows everyone to use and redistribute the software;

* Contributions (improvements and extensions) to the software inherit the license, thereby guaranteeing continued availability to everyone;

* Applications constructed _using_ the software is not affected by the license and can carry its own, possibly closed source license.

## How Spoofax works

Spoofax is a language workbench that generates language implementations from language definitions.

Let's consider the definition of some source language L that is compiled to a target language T. (For example, L may be WebDSL, and T may be Java.)

It works as follows:

* A Spoofax user writes a 'Spoofax program' in Spoofax meta-languages such as SDF, NaBL, and Stratego. Such a 'program', also known as a language definition, describes a language L including its syntax, type system, dynamic semantics, and translation to another language such as T.

* The definition may contain snippets of T code that may be "passed through" to the output. For example, a translation rule will have some T code fragment that is filled in with data from an L program.

* The user then hits the "build" button and Spoofax spits out a language implementation for L. Depending on what the language definition included, this implementation consists of a parser, editor, type checker, interpreter, and compiler for L.

* This generated language implementation links against Spoofax libraries under the LGPL.

* The copyright of the language definition for L written in the Spoofax meta-languages belong to the Spoofax user who wrote it (or his/her employer). This copyright transfers to the derived objects generated by Spoofax (the language implementation). Thus, the user may release the language definition and its implementation under whatever license the user wants and can redistribute any Spoofax libraries incorporated under the LGPL.  







